README.md, before:

# Deploy Ezmeral Container Platform on KVM

## What & Why
To re-utilize scripts and processes by https://github.com/hpe-container-platform-community/hcp-demo-env-aws-terraform/

## Pre-requisites
- CentOS/RHEL 7+, Ubuntu 18.04+ (tested on CentOS 8.2 and Ubuntu 20.04LTS Hosts)
- libvirt, qemu-kvm, libvirt-client, virt-manager
- Python3, openssh, nc, curl, ipcalc, hpecp
- Passwordless sudo

## Prepare environment
We will try to collect and install these tools. If this fails, you can always install these and re-run the scripts.

- KVM & Qemu
```shell
# Centos
sudo dnf install -y qemu-kvm libvirt libvirt-client
# Ubuntu
sudo apt install -y qemu-kvm libvirt-daemon-system libvirt-clients
```
- virt-install
```shell
# Centos
sudo dnf install -y virt-install
# Ubuntu
sudo apt install -y virt-manager
```
- python3 & pip3
```shell
# Centos
sudo dnf install -y python3
# Ubuntu
sudo apt install -y python3 python3-pip
```
- ssh-keygen
```shell
# Centos
sudo dnf install -y openssh
# Ubuntu
sudo apt install -y openssh-server
```
- nc
```shell
# Centos
sudo dnf install -y nmap-ncat
# Ubuntu (installed by default)
```
- curl
```shell
# Centos
sudo dnf install -y curl
# Ubuntu (installed by default)
```
- ipcalc
```shell
pip3 install --user ipcalc six
```
- hpecp
```shell
pip3 install --user hpecp
```
- Edit sudoers file (for passwordless execution)
    - Centos: administrator user by default can do passwordless sudo
    - Ubuntu: https://linuxconfig.org/configure-sudo-without-password-on-ubuntu-20-04-focal-fossa-linux

#### Create Bridge for gateway public interface
This is an important step to be completed, and there are so many ways to configure networking on KVM hosts.
You are expected to create a bridge interface before proceeding with the rest of this guide. 
Ref: https://wiki.libvirt.org/page/Networking

### Collect and customize
```shell
git clone https://github.com/hpe-container-platform-community/hcp-demo-env-kvm-bash.git 
cd hcp-demo-env-kvm-bash
vi etc/kvm_config.sh
```

> <code>PROJECT_DIR=_this_</code>

> <code>CENTOS_FILENAME=_CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-2003.qcow2_</code>
> <code>CENTOS_DL_URL=_https://cloud.centos.org/centos/7/images/CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-2003.qcow2_</code>

> <code>TIMEZONE=_your time zone in IANA timezone format_ ie, "Asia/Dubai". Get valid formats using "timedatectl list-timezones"</code>

> <code>EPIC_FILENAME="path-to-epic-installer"</code>

> <code>EPIC_DL_URL=_url_</code> # to download EPIC_FILENAME (should be valid URL for wget, ie, ftp:// or http://)

> <code>CREATE_EIP_GATEWAY=True|False</code> # to enable/disable direct local network access for gateway # requires additional configuration, please see details in the kvm_create_new.sh.

> <code>PUBLIC_BRIDGE="br0"</code> # please see above for creating and naming a bridge interface

### OPTIONAL # If you want customization
> <code>DOMAIN="ecp.demo"</code>Any name except .local
> <code>KVM_NETWORK="default"</code>Will not be automatically created!

### Installation

Run
```shell
./bin/kvm_create_new.sh
```

Wait for completion (45 min to 1.5h)

ssh scripts/commands will be copied to <code>./generated</code> directory. And connectivity information will be displayed as part of script output.

```shell
./generated/ssh_controller.sh
./generated/ssh_gateway.sh
```

Open a browser to gateway
> https://ecp.garage.dubai/


# TODO

- [x] Test with non-root user

- [ ] Selectively deploy K8s cluster or EPIC cluster

- [x] Attach to GPU on host

- [x] Public IP via host interface

- [ ] Enable RDP host

- [ ] Enable external MapR cluster

- [x] Clean up (unneeded variables etc)

- [x] Optimizations (less reboots, less modifications to source scripts etc)

- [ ] Enable mounted image catalog (nfs to avoid copying catalog images)

# Troubleshooting 

If you get error for backing disk not accessible "Permission denied", be sure that SE allows permission to all the way up to the backing file _/full/path/to/centos.qcow2_

Replace the full path: <code>sudo setfacl -m u:qemu:rx /full/path/to/</code>
If file is on NFS share: <code>sudo setsebool virt_use_nfs on</code>

Commit message:

cosmetic updates set wait_for_ssh command updates to readme

README.md, after:

# Deploy Ezmeral Container Platform on KVM

## What & Why
To re-utilize scripts and processes by https://github.com/hpe-container-platform-community/hcp-demo-env-aws-terraform/

## Pre-requisites
- CentOS/RHEL 7+, Ubuntu 18.04+ (tested on CentOS 8.2 and Ubuntu 20.04LTS Hosts)
- libvirt, qemu-kvm, libvirt-client, virt-manager
- Python3, openssh, nc, curl, ipcalc, hpecp
- Passwordless sudo

## Prepare environment
We will try to collect and install these tools. If this fails, you can always install these and re-run the scripts.

- KVM & Qemu
```shell
# Centos
sudo dnf install -y qemu-kvm libvirt libvirt-client
# Ubuntu
sudo apt install -y qemu-kvm libvirt-daemon-system libvirt-clients
```
- virt-install
```shell
# Centos
sudo dnf install -y virt-install
# Ubuntu
sudo apt install -y virt-manager
```
- python3 & pip3
```shell
# Centos
sudo dnf install -y python3
# Ubuntu
sudo apt install -y python3 python3-pip
```
- ssh-keygen
```shell
# Centos
sudo dnf install -y openssh
# Ubuntu
sudo apt install -y openssh-server
```
- nc
```shell
# Centos
sudo dnf install -y nmap-ncat
# Ubuntu (installed by default)
```
- curl
```shell
# Centos
sudo dnf install -y curl
# Ubuntu (installed by default)
```
- ipcalc
```shell
pip3 install --user ipcalc six
```
- hpecp
```shell
pip3 install --user hpecp
```
- Edit sudoers file (for passwordless execution)
    - Centos: administrator user by default can do passwordless sudo
    - Ubuntu: https://linuxconfig.org/configure-sudo-without-password-on-ubuntu-20-04-focal-fossa-linux

#### Create Bridge for gateway public interface
This is an important step to be completed, and there are so many ways to configure networking on KVM hosts.
You are expected to create a bridge interface before proceeding with the rest of this guide. This script uses SRIOV passthrough. Might need updates for other use cases.
Ref: https://wiki.libvirt.org/page/Networking

### Collect and customize
```shell
git clone https://github.com/hpe-container-platform-community/hcp-demo-env-kvm-bash.git 
cd hcp-demo-env-kvm-bash
vi etc/kvm_config.sh
```

> <code>PROJECT_DIR=_./ or /ecp (or anything else)_</code>

> <code>CENTOS_FILENAME=_CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-2003.qcow2_</code>
> <code>CENTOS_DL_URL=_https://cloud.centos.org/centos/7/images/CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-2003.qcow2_</code>

> <code>TIMEZONE=_your time zone in IANA timezone format_ ie, "Asia/Dubai". Get valid formats using "timedatectl list-timezones"</code>

> <code>EPIC_FILENAME=_epic installer filename_"</code>

> <code>EPIC_DL_URL=_url_</code> # to download EPIC_FILENAME (should be valid URL for wget, ie, ftp:// or http://)

> <code>CREATE_EIP_GATEWAY=True|False</code> # to enable/disable direct local network access for gateway # requires additional configuration, please see details in the kvm_create_new.sh.

> <code>PUBLIC_BRIDGE="br0"</code> # please see above for creating and naming a bridge interface

### OPTIONAL
> <code>DOMAIN="ecp.demo"</code>Any name except .local
> <code>KVM_NETWORK="default"</code>Will not be automatically created!

### Installation

Run
```shell
./bin/kvm_create_new.sh
```

Wait for completion (45 min to 1.5h)

ssh scripts/commands will be copied to <code>./generated</code> directory. And connectivity information will be displayed as part of script output.

```shell
./generated/ssh_controller.sh
./generated/ssh_gateway.sh
```

Open a browser to gateway
> https://ecp.garage.dubai/


# TODO

- [x] Test with non-root user

- [ ] Selectively deploy K8s cluster or EPIC cluster

- [x] Attach to GPU on host

- [x] Public IP via host interface

- [ ] Enable RDP host (possibly not needed, low priority)

- [ ] Enable external MapR cluster

- [x] Clean up (unneeded variables etc)

- [x] Optimizations (less reboots, less modifications to source scripts etc)

- [ ] Enable mounted image catalog (nfs to avoid copying catalog images)

- [ ] Use AWS scripts as subproject instead of manually downloading files

# Troubleshooting 

If you get error for backing disk not accessible "Permission denied", be sure that SE allows permission to all the way up to the backing file _/full/path/to/centos.qcow2_

Replace the full path: <code>sudo setfacl -m u:qemu:rx /full/path/to/</code>
If file is on NFS share: <code>sudo setsebool virt_use_nfs on</code>
